# pita-for-breakfast
Tales of our trip to Jordan and Egypt


## Day 1
Hi all,  

In the spirit of the Scotland emails, here’s the newest from the travel log...  

What a place... (we’ll start there and I’ll back it up with some words and a few pictures that vaguely do it justice). 

A few notes about airplane travel:  
If you fly into O’Hare and land in, say, terminal 2, and need to get to terminal 5, you will need to run—and I mean run— to gate C17 and hope that the bus will be arriving soon enough to give you enough time to cross the tarmac. If this is not the case, the lady will unapologetically tell you that “you are going to miss your flight.” Happily I was on one of the few flights with timing such that I squeaked by with 15 minutes to spare having /booked it/ from the bus to the gate. Anyway...  

I did make all my flights (LA-Chicago-Vienna-Amman) and through immigration and found Kevin waiting at the bottom of the escalator to give me a big hug (also, points to him for explaining literally every part of the process of going through immigration). We eventually found our way to the rental car company, were given a Nissan Sunny (not nearly so friendly as little Argo from Scotland) with considerably less hassle than in Scotland, and hit the road.  

You’ll see from the pictures that lane lines are a flexible topic here. Take moment to try to parse what they might mean. (Our host last night informed us that people drive in the lanes...unless the shoulder is paved better, and then they drive there instead.) Once upon a time there was an improv comedy show called “Who’s line is it anyway?” With a tag phrase “where the rules are made up and the points don’t matter.” We (mostly Kevin’s creative genius) came up with “Who’s lane is it anyways? Where the police stop you randomly and the lines don’t matter.” Ever the trooper, Kevin did the lane juggle and 2.5 hours later he and my jet lagged self arrived at our Airbnb.  

We made a game-time decision to try to get Petra by Night tickets, so within the hour we were off again hunting an ATM, dinner and tickets. Wins all around and we chowed down on sandwiches as we walked toward Petra for the first time.  

Magical. With the path was lit in both sides with luminaria (candies sitting in sand inside bags—makes for glowing bags) and a big of a moon, we made our way through the canyon toward the Treasury. I’ll admit we were not quite, but almost, the last ones there because I was fumbling with lenses and camera settings (in the dark!) trying to capture some of it, but made it we did. We sat there under the stars listening to first a guy playing a really old bowed string instrument I can’t remember the name of, and then a flutist. After the concert they lit up the Treasury. When we walked in the entire area in front was doted with the luminaria but the spots of light on the ground didn’t illuminate the actual carving well. Anyway, have a look at the pictures, that will do it more justice than I can.  

That wraps up my first fraction of a day in Jordan.  

As usual, I’m a day behind, but The Short Version of today is: our Airbnb host was amazing, hiking Petra was literally an awesome (as in, inspired awe) 11 mile experience (I’m exhausted—bone tired from hiking and jet lag), and dinner at the Airbnb host’s husband’s restaurant was delicious and delightful—he is also a notably gracious host.  

I may send stories from today tomorrow, but they may just get wrapped into picture captions. (I’m a little behind posting pictures too, but here’s where they’ll be:  

https://photos.app.goo.gl/ZzcXLgPZBb9XC5zR8. 

(Scroll down until you get past Kevin’s Saudi Arabia pictures from his work trip to get to Jordan pictures.). 

Hugs from Jordan,  
Jordan

## Day 2
Dear world,

Last we spoke I had given you the tldr on day two... which could be mostly explained by the fact that Friday was spent hiking 11 miles on a brain full of adrenaline and jet lag. Let’s see if we can do it more justice than that.

Day 2
Mmmmmm breakfast here is great :) Yogurt and apricot jam, za’atar and labneh and pita, cucumbers, tomatoes, eggs, olives, cheese, tea, and coffee.  In the case of Day 2 morning, it also came with the company of Gail and tips about routes to take into Petra :) Bonus was meeting her incredibly generous and gracious husband, Ibrahim, who was fake offended we hadn’t visited him at his restaurant the night prior and insisted we come (indeed he offered us free dinner or at the very least free tea nd sweets).

I was moving a little slowly due to jet lag etc, but we were out and on our way by 8:15 and walking up to the gate by 8:30, Jordan pass in hand. (Great time saver was buying a tourism pass in advance that included a visa if you stayed more than three nights and admission to various sites including Petra.) The walk into Petra was beautiful, though a bit of a project dodging all the tour groups.  The way the rock comes in on both sides and curves around is nothing short of graceful (I’m sure that one or two of the pictures will do it enough justice to give a feeling for what I’m talking about). The treasury was quite impressive, though a different scene with people and camels and donkeys and vendors and horses and carriages. I wanted to capture the sounds as well as the visual, but I was never quite fast enough to whip out a recording device to get audio of the cacophony.  Seriously, it sounded like a Star Wars movie.

Our first side hike was up to the high place of sacrifice which featured views of the valley and the surrounding mountains.  On our way down we came across a woman sitting on a rock practicing the flute and while we resisted her urging to act as our guide on a side trip to our side trip, Kevin did agree to a cup of Arab coffee (they cook the coffee in the water and add cardamom, a bit like Turkish coffee as I recall) and we sat on a rock and heard about her 20 siblings, including a sister named Libya, and four children.  Coffee finished, we got going and explored our way down the mountain, poking our heads into caves and losing and finding the path from time to time (as you do ;)). We finally popped back out on the main road near some Roman ruins (that we would visit later in an almost state of exhausted delirium) and after a quick bite (a very disappointing sandwich—can’t win ‘em all) started up the path toward the monastery.  The trail to the monastery was a bit nose-to-tail, but the monastery itself was worth the effort.  It was HUGE!  Probably you’ve seen the picture of me in front of it at this point, but in our JFS (Jordan For Scale) approach to contextualizing the world, let’s just say, I wasn’t even as tall as the sign in front of the entrance. It’s amazing that they carved structures like this, and how well preserved they are.

We continued past the monastery to the first unofficial view, advertised as “the best view in the world.” Nice, but we would beg to differ because the second view (advertised as “the best view in Petra”) was even better.  We sat on stools at this guy’s tent drinking sweet tea with mint and as we were sitting there the sun streamed through this gap in the clouds lighting up a mosque on a mountain a few mountains away.  Honestly, it was something to just sit and take in the sheer verticality (I don’t even think goats could take this on) of the surrounding cliffs.  The guy said that we could see as far as Israel, albeit way in the distance.

A quick look at the time and we were on our way back down the hill. At this point it was starting to hit me that my body had no earthly idea what time it was, but it had been going a long time.  We perused a few stalls (they were everywhere on the trail, no matter how far you thought you had gotten away from civilization, there was always someone around the corner trying to sell you a rock or a necklace or a scarf), but mostly motored down.  I mentioned the delirious stop at the Roman ruins, but besides that, we forced the left-foot-then-right-foot paradigm to just get ourselves to the car as quickly as possible.  By the time we got out we had hiked 11 miles, which I’ll call a solid day.

We checked into our hotel (no where near as nice as Gail and Ibrahim’s place) and then waited for hot water.  The down time was welcome (we forced ourselves to stay awake) but we were happy when it was time to head to Ibrahim’s restaurant, My Mom’s Recipe :) Delicious!  We had a mixed grill plate and some chicken dish with rice, hummus, guava juice and a fresh lemon-mint juice, followed by tea and sweets (a solid baklava move) sitting on an enclosed terrace heated by gas heaters and festively decorated with all kinds of fabric (it was pleasantly quiet too, come to think of it—all absorptive surfaces so that probably shouldn’t be a surprise).  I wish we had taken a picture of the restaurant itself, but at least Kevin got one of the spread.

Calling it there.  Everything else was a blur of getting to sleep.

Jordan

## Day 3

Hi all,

“Why are you awake at 5:11 a.m.?” You ask? Very fair question. “Because on top of the chorus (kind term for it) of roosters, at 5 a.m. there was a cacophony of ten minute calls to prayer from every mosque in Giza over loud speaker”

Day 3
Day 3 found us with grand intentions of getting up and out by 7:30 to beat the crowds too, but functional plans to enjoy our breakfast on the enclosed roof terrace of our hotel (similar spread as with Gail, though less charming), amassing our gear and getting out the door in time to be on the trail (foregoing the “salami sandwich” this time) by 8:15 prevailed.  Not bad—we missed most of the large tour groups from the day before—but not the empty Treasury we had thought might be coming our way. C’est la vie; what do you gain, what do you lose? 11 miles and 30 minutes.  I’ll take it.

We were on a mission to see the Roman tombs.  It went something like this: scramble down the path to the treasury, head to the right to the tombs, scramble up a first round of stairs. Oh my, what a view. Scramble up more stairs to a tomb. Good heavens, did you see that ceiling?! (You’ll see the picture, it looked like some sort of highly textured weaving, though in fairness it’s not super obvious looking at the picture that it’s a ceiling.) Discuss the potential value of several small objects with stall owner, conclude we don’t like him or his prices. Walk past half a dozen more stalls. Climb more stairs. Man, did you see that view behind us? (The views behind us were of the main road spilling out past the amphitheater toward the mountains (I’m not sure what constitutes a mountain to be honest, but these were notably less gentle than hills and required hiking to get into, so we’ll go with it for now) where the monastery is. The layers of rock and all their texture alone would have been notable, and  adding the various structures carved into the rock made the view that much more intricate.) Did you see the texture in the rock steps? Thank goodness they didn’t deem it necessary to throw concrete over those like they did a few a ways down—traction be damned, beauty for the win! (We believe, in an effort to increase traction for tourists where steps had been eroded by years of wear and wind and water, some tourist organization added a concrete layer to the top) Climb more stairs. (Noticing a pattern?) Oh, now we’re getting somewhere... sigh, photo? Click, click, click. (That was the click of the camera as we tried to capture the verticality of the treasury looking down from above) Scramble... etc At this point, I encourage you to look at the photos.  I will only add that (1) we saw a full sized Pepsi cooler abandoned at the top of the mountain and can’t imagine how it came to be there and (2) we saw two guys with a donkey hauling four bags of trash and the donkey was weaving across the path back and forth, occasionally scraping one of the bags against the rocks and Kevin had me in fits anthropomorphizing it—ask him about it sometime. We did a little shopping during our scramble down and out of Petra, but mostly we were on a mission to get in the car and off to Wadi Rum, so we will pick up our story there...

We only got stopped once by the police on our way to Wadi Rum (valley of light, airborne sand)! We were running a bit late, so by the time we arrived we were in a rush, but it still ended up being a wild exciting ride of an afternoon.  Where you ask, were we headed, really?  Right, so Wadi Rum is a nature preserve in the south of Jordan not far from the Saudi Arabian border.  On our drive to Wadi Musa from Amman, at the recommendation of enough random people, we decided to cancel our second night at the Rocky Mountain Hotel in Wadi Musa and opt to make the 2 hour drive south to take a 2 ish hour Jeep ride through the preserve, a 2 ish hour ride on camel and a night in a tent at a Bedouin camp.  (I’ll give credit where credit is due though, it was Gail who did the dirty work of cancelling our second night at the hotel and made arrangements for our tours and stay at Khaled’s Camp—have I mentioned that she was great?) We scrambled a bit, trying to make sure we ended up with the right people (Gail said we shouldn’t advertise who we were looking for in case they offered to be whomever we named), but soon we were in the right Jeep (for some loose definition of Jeep—I believe it was actually a Toyota) and off on Mr. Toad’s wild ride.

What an experience... You’ll see some pictures of each of us with hair flying back as we sped along (the young guy driving was very skilled) and I’ll tell you that I probably took an order of magnitude more pictures than survived due to the uneven terrain ;) But to add a few extra words, it was, an expanse.  This wide open space of subtly varying red sand topography punctuated by sandstone outcroppings in the hours just before sunset.  We would stop every so often to scramble (our young intrepid driver as tickled by my name being Jordan and would send us off with, “Go Jordan! GO!”) up some rock for a view or to view some old inscription on some rock (in truth, the view from the ground wasn’t that different from the view from the top  because it was all of a huge expanse and a 100 feet of vertical doesn’t move the needle on your perspective much, but the scrambles were fun in their own rights) but my favorite part was the ride :) We did eventually make it to the spot our driver had in mind for the sunset and after s few unannounced and unexplained stops—literally he stopped without explanation, reversed, smiled, parked, but didn’t beckon us—to gather pieces of brush and rocks, it became clear that the sunset watching plan involved Bedouin tea. We still don’t understand why he chose to make the fire on the other side of the vehicle from the sunset such that we couldn’t drink tea while we sun go down, but as it turns out he struggled with the fire starting anyway (resourceful fellow though, eventually pulled a little gasoline from the car to help things along) so sunset and tea happened sequentially anyway.

You’ll see the picture of our tent, but the important thing to know was that one wall of it was window so we could look out of our bed where we were under a pile of blankets and see the stars. Our dinner was cooked underground, so just prior to dinner we saw chicken, potatoes, vegetable stew, and rice emerge from the ground on a multi level set of trays. (Not only was dinner delicious, but bonus for Jordan-the-vegetable-enthusiast was the lovely cucumber and tomato salad and the yogurt cucumber sauce :)) After dinner we sat around taking with the other guests (two couples from Bavaria traveling separately, a woman from San Francisco, and a fellow who works in the UAE with plans to retire soon with his kids and grandkids outside of Boulder) and took a wander to look at the stars.

Photos here:
https://photos.app.goo.gl/ZzcXLgPZBb9XC5zR8

That’s a wrap for now, time to head back to sleep (hopefully).

Jordan

P.S. I’m in an arm wrestling match with Google photos so the majority of mine may not show up until we stumble acrosss reliable internet.

## Day 4

 Day 4

Armed with new knowledge of my camera (I didn’t get into it, but I spent some time pouring over the French manual for my camera and trying different combinations of buttons and settings until I figured out how to manually adjust the exposure on Day 3 night) we woke up at 5:20 to watch the sunrise from the warmth of bed :).  Beautiful. We could see hikers on the rock in the distance, and I felt a twinge of “I should be out there” but I also embraced the decadence of our window wall without much trouble. After breakfast we spent two hours on camels traveling back to our car. Heh. It’s possible two hours was an hour too many, but camels are ridiculous creatures and not something we can do everyday, so I reckon it’s good we got our fill.  Check out the video clips to get a taste of how awkward it is getting up and down ;).

All but one sandal (sorry to report that) met us at our car, and we started off for the Dead Sea. We had not expected a scenic drive particularly as the prior drives had been a bit hit-or-miss, but this one had some mighty fine vistas and an early sighting of Israel and the Dead Sea. (For those keeping score at home, we were stopped by police once on our drive to our swimming spot and the policeman tried to get us to take on a couple of hitchhikers, but happily didn’t push very hard. Our final total is 5.)
I may have driven Kevin a little nuts as I played name-that-vegetable as we drove by field after field and stand after stand, but he didn’t say anything; what a gentleman!

The Dead Sea did not disappoint. For 15 JOD each we got an hour to change, race down to the beach, play in the water, shower and get back on our way. You all thought I might leave it at that...ha! But seriously, the Dead Sea was really neat. We found that not only could we float high enough in the water without effort to read a newspaper, but we could also be upright with shoulders clearly above the waterline without treading water! We covered ourselves with mud so I’m guessing there was definitely a Benjamin Button thing going, or would have been had we not aged several years driving through traffic into Amman...

Back in the car, I started scrambling to find some place to eat.  Pushed by the desire to have a glass of wine with dinner, I  stumbled across a highly rated Lebanese restaurant and—bless him—Kevin was down.  We did finally struggle through rush hour traffic in and around Amman and make our way to the hotel. I kid you not though, we saw cars go the wrong way in open lanes of traffic only to push their ways back in at the end of the street. I did my best with google maps to try to keep the pain to a minimum, but props to Kevin for taking Jordanian driving by the horns.

We did eventually make it to the hotel (I’m pretty sure that the last 300 meters took 6 minutes), showered properly (I’m also pretty sure it will take multiple showers to get all the salt off and probably a washing machine to get our bathing suits back to pre DS condition), and hit the streets (on foot!) on our way to dinner.  We paused awkwardly as we arrived at the restaurant, unclear about whether they would take us in our blue jeans and without a reservation (I think they were unclear too because they also paused, looked at each other, left, came back, conferred) but they eventually took us to a table in a room off the main room and what followed was delightful.  Our waiter, a fellow from Damascus with family in Oklahoma, refused to let us serve ourselves and at his hands (and those of this little man who would leap in and deposit hit puts on our bread plates) we had fattoush, hummus, a shawarma pie, a mixed grill plate and wine followed by candied fruits (pomelo peal, fig, apricot) and a huge fruit bowl (see photo to understand why we howled with laughter when he brought it). Anyway, it was an entire meal of swallows, smiles, and giggles as one of us after another tried to do something polite or enjoy something. As we walked back we passed a Bank of Jordan and discussed whether it would be worth the foreign transaction fees to have such an atm card...

As I sit here, impressively full, in the common room of the Sydney Hotel (somewhere between a hotel and a hostel) I can still feel the spot on my chin where the water made contact.  The Dead Sea is quite a place. The camels are impressively awkward creatures. Tomorrow, like today, is likely to take my breath away.  Again.

Photos here:
https://photos.app.goo.gl/ZzcXLgPZBb9XC5zR8

Until next time (and hopefully for sometime after that, but anyway),
Jordan

## Day 5

Day 5

There’s a song that has a line “I woke up in a car” and for whatever reason everytime Kevin and I talk about the morning of Day 5 it starts with “we woke up in Amman”... the weird things that happen in brains, eh?

Breakfast was not the production that dinner on Night 4 was (and thank goodness), but was enjoyable and with it I experienced the second positive interaction with my camera (it’s been a nightmare getting photos from my camera to my phone to google photos) whereby it actually wirelessly transmitted all the camel photos (among others) when I asked it to, and on the first try! But I diverge...

We packed up and headed out to a Roman amphitheater. We had heard it was neat, and only had time for a short jaunt, so we wove speedily along the sewing machine street which gave way to women’s clothing street and eventually a street or two with less commercial specificity. I kid you not though, there was a solid block of stores that specialized in sewing machines! Not exactly a surprise given we had walked a pet food block the night before on our way to dinner. We arrived at the amphitheater and proudly produced our Jordan passes (we were pleased that they were getting us into yet another site), and the man at the entrance took each of them, turned them over, folded them and purposefully stamped them... with his hand that did not contain a stamp :) We were tickled by the joking formality of this ritual, as we believe, was he. The amphitheater was quite impressive. You’ve probably seen the photos by this point, but I’m pretty sure the pitch was such that there were not bad seats in that house.

It was a speedy visit because we were in a once-burned-thrice-shy mentality when it came to Amman traffic and wanted to make sure we returned the rental car and got to the airport on time. As it happens, when we got back to the hotel we found we had a bonus 40 minutes so we poked around nearby stores for a while (picked up a couple of Jordan mugs ;)) before heading out. You’ve already heard about traffic in Amman, but I’ll add here that we came across a recurring traffic structure that involved a round about with an underpass straightaway.

Things went smoothly at the airport and aside from an unexpected flight path that avoided flying over or near Israel and an unexpected meal (a meal on a flight with only an hour fly time?!) there was nothing to write home about...as they say. We landed in Cairo and bought our visa stamps in U.S. dollars which was both handy because we hadn’t exchanged money yet, and interesting because it turns out they don’t accept local currency. I got stopped briefly at immigration for reasons we don’t understand (possibly something about my many names? Never know about these things, particularly with a language barrier) and then we headed to baggage claim where I fumbled around between “I forgot my password” and 2-factor authentication text messages (15 seconds is *barely* enough to get a text from Uber with a code and enter it, it turns out) trying to login to the Uber app (I had deleted it all together after the Uber stories came out, but for some reason I had reinstalled it, so at least we had that going for us). Fending off taxi drivers, we found our way to the B5 parking sign and to our ride.

Ah, the ride. How do I do Cairo rush hour justice? There was even less adherence to lane lines and much more honking than Jordan (even during rush hour in Amman). That seems superficial though in comparison to the unpaved road connections and exits, people selling things in traffic, vehicles broken down everywhere and people milling about...and that was the freeway! The roads near the pyramids featured horses and rickshaws and camels as well a s the regular slough of pedestrians and taxis. Bonus was that our hotel is new, so nobody knows where it is, and was actually located down a dirt lane and around a corner in a place that a car couldn’t possibly have reached, so you can imagine that figuring that out and with a language barrier went about as smoothly as medium grade sand paper. A couple of people from the hotel came out to the last landmark (a Chinese food restaurant) and showed us the rest of the way.

But! The roof terrace (not enclosed this time) had a fantastic view of the pyramids so after we had put down our stuff, we headed upstairs for what turned out to be a couple of HORRIBLE beers and a GREAT view of the sound and light show put on every night. Though intimidated by the twisting and turning streets and complicated social rules of the immediate part of world outside our hotel, we ventured out for dinner and enjoyed a fancy meal (Hummus, baba ganoush, pita, soup, salad, eggplant thing, chicken kabab, lamb and rice) for $16.

Signing off for now,
Jordan

